alright in this tutorial a little demo
here I'm just going to go over real fast
like how to put a little how to put
things in the shelf here so that you can
add things like inside these tabs or
make your own tab in the shelf and you
don't have to keep going into a meeting
you to find something to do something
you're going to keep going over and over
again you can do it from a button in the
shelf and anyway yeah let's get started
a little bit then so basically this is
your shelf up here you have all these
ones and normally in the mine that i use
on my other work station i don't have
these default shelves up really at all
because they're just a mess and they
take up space and all that but we're
basically in there for everything and
since you know we probably gone model
here in my tutorials this is the polygon
shelf here which pretty much has
everything you need on it but for the
demonstration I'll show you how to make
your own so to the left of all these
icons in the shelves here you'll see a
little fuller tab thing right here and
then you'll underneath of it you'll see
a little black arrows as many of items
to modify you just hold down left mouse
button on it it's got the Shelf editor
you can add it what's on a shelf you can
create a new shelf which is what we're
going to do to lead a shelf load a shelf
you can save all the shelves it'll
actually say it will save it within the
MA or mb Maya file when you save it so
when you pull it back up your shelves
are there but we'll go new shelf interna
shelf name and you can't have any spaces
or wacky characters so everything has to
be you can use the old first capital
letter James polygon tools and there's
my empty shelf right there on the very
end so when I got it in there I don't
want to save all shelves yet because i'm
going to add some things to a first but
with this with this empty tab selected
that's James polygon tools or whatever
your name is I'm going to go over here
i'm in the rendering tab now i want to
make this is polygon tools that's why i
named it that so i know the tab is for
modeling with polygons
when I'm just modeling so I'm going to
go to the modeling tab and basically I
had to think about the tools that I'm
going to use most okay you know like the
ones I'm going to model with the
polygons most ones you will probably
always want to put on your shelf
regardless of what it is is edit delete
by type history now don't delete all by
type those early history on everything
in your scene you just want to delete by
type history on whatever the object you
currently have selected is now to get
this to add to your shelf you just come
over till it's highlighted what you want
hold down Shift + ctrl while holding
them down click the left mouse button
now you see an icon that appeared in my
shelf right here since H is on it that's
Maya's icon for history so edit delete
by type history you want to put in any
shelf you create because you're going to
delete history on objects as you go when
you're finished working on them you want
to delete history the other one you want
to do is get rid of the data on all the
transforms on an object you're working
on and you would go under modify freeze
transformations now you can do the old
trick and just hold down Shift + ctrl
and click it right on the freeze
transforms but you don't really know
what settings you're freezing transforms
with been so usually if it's something
where I may change the settings here and
there I will actually go over to the
little box settings box here and alt and
shift ctrl click that and it goes in so
this time when I click on these buttons
you won't see anything happen with the
history because there's no object
machine freeze transformations will pop
up its options box this way if you're
freezing transforms and we wouldn't be
in my polygon tools tab but like say on
joints which is risky stuff anyway you
could select it purty select joint
orientation in here usually wouldn't
want to create the transforms on a joint
orientation but anyway so we added those
and then I would go in here under and
since his polygon modeling tools under
polygons
in edit polygons for me ones I use most
are I'd had a pin the polygon I do
smooth proxy but I'm going to put the
settings because I'll probably want to
make sure what the settings are first
snows not important because with frog
see I i'll look at it smooth and then
when I like it on go ahead and smooth it
after that combined I don't use a
tremendous amount so I go under edit
polygons I definitely use a split
polygon tool of the anal and put the
option mugs duplicate edge loop split
edge ring all these extrude face extrude
edge sometimes I came for the verdicts
vertices cut faces sometimes Pope faces
merge works huge one you said all the
time duplicating phases extract faces
sculpt gel at your tool we talked about
that one the other tutorial so I will
just create a polygon plane one by one
subdivision
and I wait for this machine alag put its
capturing video and it's a creddie video
part so I my thing there and split
badges yet and then I don't even look I
didn't have to go up in the menu if I
was going to do that otherwise the
normal way I mean you see when eighth of
a second but it adds up when you spend
hundreds hours on something to go up in
here edit split edge ring tool and then
do it you know put on here I can just
we're good man I can do this all day
strood phase and after a while you're
going to recognize what these icons mean
but that's how you add things to the
shelf and I will last thing I will do is
save all shelves and then we would save
the actual file out